Well, congratulations on your book.
Thank you.
It is, what, 23 years old?
Yep.
This must be the first question everybody asks.
Well, I'll be 24 on Sunday.
This started as a project in your sophomore college.
I was a junior.
I was working in Harrisburg at the time, and I went to school about 40 miles away from there, and I had problems getting workshop into my schedule.
So I begged and pleaded and got my professor, Robert Olmsted, to agree with an infinite study, and that's where this started.
I struck a deal for 30 pages by the end of the semester, by December, and he wasn't going to check up on me or anything.
It was just 30 pages.
So by October I had a good sentence, and November I had a paragraph, and December I had a page and a half, and Christmas Vacation comes and goes.
But it didn't start as a novel, right?
Well, I knew at the time when I was working on it that it would be something longer.
I'd had a workshop this spring prior where I'd written a novella, about 90 pages at work.
So I was real comfortable with that long, long form.
I don't think I considered a novel.
I don't think I really thought that far.
And you were in which school?
Dickinson?
Dickinson.
And where is that?
Carlisle, Pennsylvania.
Is that close to Allentown?
Allentown's about two hours.
Allentown's two hours towards New York.
Okay.
Allentown takes me sometimes.
There's an angle.
Yeah, well, I live...
Actually, now I'm Pennsylvania, right outside of State College.
I went to graduate school.
Oh, really?
My husband goes to graduate.
How's the paper there?
Tiny.
Do they do any of the books?
No, rarely.
I don't even read it.
It's often hard when they're too small.
What I've done is really target these university towns.
So I'm in Eugene or
Charlottesville.
A lot of Southern papers.
Charlottesville has a great paper.
It really does.
I'm so pleased to be in there.
They have book columnists every week.
Oh, great.
And then Knoxville every week.
And then Jackson, Gainesville.
Oh, yeah?
The Bills, Knoxville, Gainesville, Australia.
All the university towns, you know.
And Austin will take this, Austin, Texas.
So it's a pretty big spread of papers.
But it is, anyway, to get back to the
to go back to the narrative.
So you live in State College, so your husband is a graduate student?
Yeah, he's getting his PhD.
In what?
Spanish literature.
And I guess from some of the stuff I read, there was a deadline here, right?
Yeah, I was bound and determined to have a son before I graduated, and then I graduated.
So then it was before I got married.
And I did.
Now, you kept saying that you didn't get it done, you didn't get it done.
I mean, it was a problem.
That was a great problem.
In terms of motivation?
No.
Again, I was real busy.
I had full load classes and I was working about 30 hours a week and had a sizable commute.
So I was always thinking about it, and I had my heart in it, but I just wasn't getting the time as a typewriter that I wanted.
So it started when you were a sophomore?
Junior.
It followed my junior year.
You were 20 or so?
Yep.
And it was a senior project?
No.
It was just for an independent study.
What happened, I finally did get it turned in, and a couple weeks later I get a really terse message from Robert Olmsted on my answering machine telling me to get over to his office now.
And I'm thinking, he's failed me, because like the 30th page I ended mid-sentence.
It was 30 pages exactly.
And I knew I had a lot more work to do on it just for myself, and knew it would be longer.
So I go Terran over to his house, and he tells me that he sent the first page of it up to New York, and people lied to them.
Yeah, he just sent the first page, the opening, there's the opening paragraph.
Wow, and that's the same?
Same opening paragraph, yeah.
And he sent this to Amanda Urban?
Sent it to Amanda Urban, who was his agent.
She's a very high-powered agent.
Yeah, she is.
She's very young.
She gets things done.
Yeah, I'm really impressed that she would take on.
She didn't actually take me on.
She recommended, well, of course, I had 30 unpolished pages, and I was 20 years old.
I could be 10 years writing that book, and she knew that.
And she had a young agent working for at the time, Gordon Kato, and K-A-T-O.
And he took me on, called me up, just said he'd...
I worked up with that movement that I turned into my independent study by February, I guess, the next year, and he read those 45 or so pages, and he just encouraged me beyond belief.
He had a lot of faith.
And a couple years, about 18 months later, I sent him the manuscript.
I did a lot of editing for him, much more so than I did for Janet, actually.
I'd love to know Janet Silver.
Janet Silver, my editor here.
And, uh, name of the teacher again?
Robert Olmsted.
How do you spell it?
O-L-M-S-T-E-A-D.
Now, is he a published writer?
Oh, yeah, he's got, uh, five novels.
Uh, four novels, and he just, he's coming out with a memoir, uh, this month.
So, was this his agent that he sent it to?
Yes, it was his agent, and his editor at the time, David Rosenthal.
So he was a novel?
David Rosenthal.
Oh, I see.
Yeah, because that is kind of an extraordinary.
Well, yeah, yeah, it is, it was a, it was a real fluke thing.
So, in your mind,
You figured this was a project?
That was, I mean, I knew that I was in this for the long haul.
I wanted to work as a writer.
That's why I was in college.
What were you studying?
English.
And then you said that's what you were studying.
Yeah.
They had a, I knew when I applied to Dickinson, they had a writer in residence, Robert Homestead, and he worked very closely with his students.
pretty much drawn to the school for that reason.
So this is really one of those instances where the writer does something.
Oh, yeah.
It doesn't happen at all.
Well, Bob really did.
I'm not putting this in my story, but that's usually a good gig for somebody.
Well, from what I understand, yeah.
Yeah, it's a nice way to get paid.
And come in once a week.
Yeah.
No, he pulled out all the stops for me.
And he's a fantastic writer.
Is he still there?
He just retired this year.
His wife took another job.
That's really amazing.
Did you have hopes that you would be a fiction writer or a journalist?
I didn't want to work in journalism.
I wanted to work with books, fiction.
I just didn't expect it this fast.
I figured this was going to be some hard years.
And then, of course, the awarding.
I mean, I wouldn't be here if it weren't for the Hope Miller Foundation Fellowship.
Really?
Yeah, that was such a pride.
You know, I mean, it's just, I've got my next 14 columns booked, I take, you know, one out of 10, maybe.
Yeah.
I mean, so the cachet of this thing is really quite extraordinary.
Yes.
For the company you're in, I mean, does that intimidate you at all?
Yeah.
Yes, yes.
I was shocked.
I really was.
Janet, the award was a total surprise.
And when Janet called me, she says, I've won this award, and I'd never heard of it.
And I say, yeah.
The last time I was given, you were probably 14.
Yeah.
And so she says, Robert Penn Warren, and I just.
Oh, Elizabeth Bishop.
I know.
In fact, I did Ethan Canaan.
Really?
They've done it a couple times, but it was cooking on the storage.
Yes.
Yeah, it was the last time they did it.
God, it is an extraordinary company.
What's the first printing?
Do you know offhand?
No, I don't.
I don't.
As I recall, it was large.
It seemed awful big to me.
I don't recall.
I think it was between 15 and 20.
Yeah, well, that's wonderful.
Is it?
Great.
20,000 is quite wonderful, actually.
I hope it sells 20,000.
Me too.
For the first novel, I just had a book published last summer, and my first print was 6700.
Oh, that's great.
Oh, fantastic.
It's not a novel.
In fact, it was shortlisted for the international book review.
Really?
What's the title?
It's about bibliomania.
It's called The Gentle Madness.
neat that's a fascinating subject though i spent eight years on books anyway um but that's that's spectacular yeah so um is your editor now are you working on something else or um not specifically with uh colton misland i am working on another novel i'd like to finish it before i i made any calls with with um
what's going to happen to it.
You know, I'd rather work with a finished book.
Right.
But you're not working with a editor at all.
I know.
I guess I like that.
I'm working on this book the way that I did coming up through college, and I've worked very closely with Robert Olmsted, so I'd like to try this on my own, I think.
I'd like to
you know, sort of beat myself over the head.
The good part of that is that you won't have the pressure of a contract saying, you know, it's not like getting a paper in for a teacher.
Yeah.
You've got a contract.
It's legal.
Yeah, and they're giving you money.
Right.
You know, I just got, in my first book, I had a very small advance, you know, and I was having nothing, you know.
Yeah.
Just published me.
And this is what happens, you know.
But this one, because of the performance, I got a very good advance.
Really wonderful.
Great.
And there would have been more if I dropped it, but I wanted to stay with the same idea when they had the publishing house, which is Holden.
Oh, they're great.
Actually, they're bringing out Bach's books.
Are they?
Metropolitan Books, you know, the new imprint.
Oh, yeah.
And who's his editor?
Reva, Reva Hoppock.
Okay, yeah, I'm going to have a few books.
In fact, I'll ask you to describe my own books.
Certainly.
Whatever I do as an author that I'm interested in, I get another book and I give him my little present.
Oh, that's nice.
He's really a sweetheart.
If you don't mind why jumping around.
Of course not.
I understand that fiction does usually speak for itself.
We will talk about it, obviously, because to write a novel at such an early age,
undoubtedly you had to draw on a lot of your own biographical elements.
Not really.
I heard the story about the vineyard, of course, that resonates to some degree.
Well, of course it would.
And something like a vineyard is a setting that I don't think you'd have much knowledge about unless you've been in one.
I'm just checking.
Go ahead.
Okay.
It's funny, I just was asked that question almost in reverse.
that how could surely a writer so young wouldn't have much experience to draw from.
You can answer that for me.
And something else that sort of came up was people that know me that have read the book have
never gone through it and said, well, I know who that person really is, or I know who that character really is, and I know who that's based on, because it's not really, there's lots of names that I borrowed from my dad's hometown.
He grew up in a small, southern town, and I suppose I borrowed a lot of the towns, too, but lots of names I borrowed, and, of course, the vineyards, just that setting, I would get that, but as far as the characters, I think,
I think they stand on their own.
She thinks a lot of the way I think.
She has some qualities that I truly admire.
She is at times bullheaded and certainly very strong-willed.
contemplative and peace with herself, I think.
And I admire that.
Maybe I do wish I could be more like that.
And I was talking about Harris before, too, when I asked him if he was based on my husband, because my husband is a grad student, and Harris is a grad student.
And I think there's perhaps where I know how a grad student works.
I know how a farmer works.
I know how these things work.
So they're easy attributes to give to characters.
I'm working on a character now who's a nurse, my mother.
So I get all the nitty-gritty details of how that works.
But the character's not my mom.
I have a brother and sister both younger.
My sister's got a picture on the back of the book.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
She's a great photographer.
Nothing?
Yeah.
I think it's kind of fun.
I do, too.
Yeah, we had a lot of fun.
Well, I don't think that's it.
Thank you so much.
The first step I had with him was last month.
And I turned in a story and I had a conference with him.
I went in and he sat at himself and said that the story is very good.
It was the last time you hear that.
And it was the last time I ever heard that.
Well, apparently, he's just decided that was the way he was going to go about teaching him.
As a teacher and a coach, I know John Barnes was listening to him, right?
Maybe, maybe so.
I was wondering, you know, if he, in fact, how do you think that you learned this?
I don't know if there's a distinction, but maybe there is.
It's been about three years since I got a formal workshop with him.
But he does not deal with rules.
He does not deal with rules.
These are the things you have to know.
So yeah, I think a coach maybe is a good chance for it.
Oh yeah.
And I have grown to depend on that kind of medicine just to the bone.
You don't have to put it to me gently.
And were there things like that in this book?
Actually, more of that
that slant on things i i did with my agent that sold the book uh he's no longer with rcm and um so i saved it by amanda urban so that was very flattering and and uh i wasn't i wasn't in a position
I was in the middle of my contract.
I couldn't go with Gordon, and he didn't know what he was doing.
So it really wasn't a good time for me to sort of... She was getting to become an agent.
Yeah.
She's an actor.
She really is.
The hardest thing, let me tell you, I've been around with you for 20 years.
Yeah.
How do you think to get an agent?
How do you think to get an agent to get a publisher?
I mean, it only makes sense.
Yeah, it does.
You know, you're going to take $6,000 to get it, $15,000, $25,000, and what do you think?
So I would have a focus behind it, and you would have a focus behind it.
I was in such a rush.
This is in 1994.
So did you have to do more work on it?
She bought it and we had some suggestions about... I think I have already started creating a lot more fine music.
Spotlight?
A couple of things that I think I'm like, so spotlight is not a good spotlight.
Yeah, it's not a spotlight.
Is that spotlight?
It's all it's easy to say.
I feel like this has always been small in the world.
And when you talk about the elements, you know, what you know it's very special.
Thank you.
So, um,
He was great on the page.
He knew what I was trying to get at and he could show me ways to go about it.
Wad?
No.
At home, up until the day I finished the book, Mom was still telling me that I could be a nurse.
Nurses always get chops, actually.
Terrible.
Was she serious?
Did she want you to be a nurse?
She's teasing.
She's teasing, but the whole English major track was never encouraged.
The first day I knew it meant anything.
I loved that idea.
I went to a liberal arts school.
It was the day I was appointed to this book editor's job.
I was 38, and at that point, I said, finally, my name is made your means off.
Fade off, yeah.
I know what you mean.
That was the dream job, to get a new book on the world.
I can imagine.
I think, yeah.
Even though I don't want to make a statement.
I think about it.
I just figured it with someone.
I love my own person.
Yes.
A lot of work.
Do you think it's all emerging?
I believe you read it.
Let's see.
I think that's the first time you did it also.
Oh, really?
Yes, I've never read it.
That year, I really loved that book.
There's nobody worth it.
And more later.
I don't know how I sit in my room.
I don't need a whole lot of time, actually.
And so it's been a while, but I've read it, but some things where I grew up, like that makes me feel like I've had to do that.
I have a story, I was, you know, like,
No, I'm going to excuse it for that.
Yeah, I'm gay, because I don't know.
I don't know.
I'm so sorry.
So I was there.
Well, in terms of the book, in terms of the EWQ-ray podcast, I didn't know.
Yep, yep.
Shri Mataji?
Yes.
How about that?
Yeah.
.
you
And I hop around.
I don't know.
I don't feel like you've made me very well.
I have not.
Because I have art, and I don't know about this kind of thing.
I'm not out of the boat.
Really?
Yeah.
Oh, nice.
Let her do it.
Yes.
Yes, sir.
Yeah.
You know, I don't think so much of it is hard to get around that.
So, I thought I had a lovely time because of that, and I didn't know what to do.
That's a lot.
You know, I don't know what to do.
But I decided to know what to do.
So, that was .
Well, I think I don't know this stuff, so I'm not like
Well, like I said, that person was in public, and I just got tired of everything, looking at my skills.
So, with that,
Yeah.
Thank you.